iRobot® Create® 3 Electrical System
Robot Battery
The iRobot® Create® 3 robot uses a standard Lithium Ion Battery for Roomba® e & i series robots. The battery shipping with the robot is a 26 Wh, 4S Lithium Ion smart battery pack, with a nominal voltage of 14.4 V (12 V min, 16.8 V max). It will report a 0% state of charge when the total voltage of the pack reaches 12.0 V. It will self-protect and disconnect from any load at 10.8 V or lower.

Notice

If the robot is approaching a 0% state of charge and the user application does not believe it will make it to the dock, the robot should be powered down using the /robot_power service. It is recommended to return to the dock at or below about 10% state of charge in order to prevent the robot from being stranded without power.

Info

As of software version G.5.4 (Galactic) and H.2.4 (Humble), the Create 3 robot will interally call the /robot_power service once the battery's state of charge dips below 2% in order to reduce the risk of tripping the battery's self-protection limits.

If the battery self-protects, its internal management system may refuse to charge until it is reset. Resetting the battery is accomplished by removing the battery from the robot for at least fifteen minutes, at which point it should be reinstalled in the robot and the robot placed on the charger.

Info

When not overridden, the robot's light ring will flash red to indicate low battery state, at about 10% state of charge. It is recommended not to run the robot for extended periods of time in this state.

Charge the battery by placing Create® 3 on the included iRobot® Home Base™ Charging Station. The light ring will show the state of charge and animate while the battery is charging. The battery will self-protect and disable the ability to charge if it charges continuously for four hours without reaching 100% state of charge.

Notice

Always remove the Create® 3 robot’s battery prior to dismantling, adjusting, altering, or affecting the robot’s chassis at the risk of damaging the battery, robot, or both. Do not attempt to use the robot without its battery installed.

Tip

Keep the robot on the Home Base™ charging station (or power down the robot by holding down the power button for 10 seconds) when not in use to prevent the battery from discharging.

Buttons and Light Ring Overview
The iRobot® Create® 3 has three buttons on its top face. The center button is marked with a power icon, while the flanking buttons are marked with one or two dots. The center button also contains a ring of six RGB LEDs. Detailed information about the use of these buttons and LEDs can be found here.

Adapter Board Overview
The iRobot® Create® 3 robot exposes connections and some status indicators via the Adapter Board. The Adapter Board also adds a Bluetooth® Low Energy1 interface to the core robot. Detailed information on the Adapter Board can be found here.





iRobot® Create® 3 Buttons and Light Ring
Button diagram

Buttons
The iRobot® Create® 3 has three buttons on its top face. These buttons expose core functionality of the robot, but can also be overridden by the user.

Button 1
Button 1 (to the left of center) is marked with a single dot (•). If held for ten seconds, the robot will go into "standby" mode, keeping its charging circuitry active, and continuing to power the payload. The robot can be placed on the dock to charge or to keep the payload alive in this mode. To wake the robot from standby, hold the center button for one second. Button presses can be accessed by the user in both ROS 2 and iRobot Education Bluetooth1 modes.

Button 2
Button 2 (to the right of center) is marked with two dots (••). This button is a user button only. Button presses can be accessed by the user in both ROS 2 and iRobot Education Bluetooth1 modes.

Center Button
The center button is marked with a power (⏻) icon. If held for seven seconds, the robot will go into "storage mode," disconnecting its internal battery from the robot and its payload. When the robot is in storage mode, the only way to power it on is to place it on the dock. The button also contains a light ring on its circumference.

Light Ring
The center button contains a ring of six RGB LEDs which communicate state about the robot. The LEDs expose internal state information about the robot, but can also be overridden by the user.

While Charging
Spinning White	Partial White	Solid White	Pulsing Red
Full spinning white	Partial spinning white	Solid white	Pulsing Red
Robot is booting up.
Wait for "happy sound" to play.	Robot is charging
(Example shows 40%)	Robot is 100% charged	Battery < 10%
While Idle
Spinning White	Solid White	Pulsing Red	Solid Red
Full spinning white	Solid white	Pulsing Red	Solid Red
Robot is booting up.
Wait for "happy sound" to play.	Robot is powered on	Battery <10%. Place on charger.	Robot error. Cycle power.
While Connecting to Robot Access Point
Spinning Cyan	Solid Cyan		
Spinning cyan	Solid cyan		
Access Point is active.
Select robot from device’s
Wi-Fi menu.	Device is connected to
robot’s Access Point page.		
While Connecting to Wi-Fi
Solid Cyan	Spinning Cyan	Quick Green Flash	Solid White
Solid cyan	Spinning cyan	Green Flash	Solid White
Device is connected to
robot’s Access Point page.	Robot attempting to
connect to Wi-Fi	Success connecting to Wi-Fi	Robot successfully
disconnected from
Access Point page
Yellow with Red	Yellow with Green	Yellow with Blue	Yellow with White	Solid Yellow
Yellow with red	Yellow with green	Yellow with blue	Yellow with white	Solid yellow
Failed Wi-Fi password	Robot cannot connect to
network access point	DHCP failed to obtain a valid
IP address before time-out.
Try again.	Access point located but
failed association. Try again.	Failed to connect to Wi-Fi
for unknown reason
While Updating Firmware
Solid Cyan	Spinning Blue	Spinning White	Solid White
Solid cyan	Spinning blue	Full spinning white	Solid White
Device is connected to
robot’s Access Point page.	Robot downloading
update file	Robot updating firmware
Do not remove from dock	Update successful
While Operating
Spinning White	Solid White	Pulsing Red	Spinning Red	Half Solid Orange	Half Solid Yellow
Full spinning white	Solid white	Pulsing Red	Spinning Red	Rear Half Orange	Rear Half Yellow
Robot is booting up.
Wait for "happy sound" to play.	Default light color	Battery < 10%	Battery < 3%	Back-up safety activated	Wheels disabled







iRobot® Create® 3 Adapter Board
Overview
The iRobot® Create® 3 robot1 has two electrical connections exposed via the Adapter Board. The connections are accessible within the robot once the cargo bay is removed. The Adapter Board is also visible through the top cover of the robot, where its indicators are visible, and the USB/BLE toggle can be switched.

Adapter Board

Power Connections
Unregulated Battery Port
The unregulated battery port is a JST XH-style connector, with pin 1 as the positive terminal of the battery, and pin 2 as the negative terminal. These terminals are labeled on the bottom side of the board and are visible with the robot on its back and the cargo bay removed. The board is capable of supplying a maximum of 2 A of current at the current battery voltage (14.4 V nominal, 12 V min, 16.8 V max), enforced by a PTC resettable fuse in the robot. This port is always on when the battery is powered on.

Notice

Do not back-feed power into the robot through this port, and do not attempt to use the robot without its battery installed.

USB-C® Connector
The USB-C® connector2 provides a USB 2.0 Host connection into the robot with 5.13 V at 3.0 A provided to power downstream connections. The power is disabled on this port unless a proper USB-C® downstream device is connected. The 5 V source powering this port is not guaranteed to stay enabled when the battery reports 0% state of charge (below 12.0 V). The USB data connection is made only when the USB/BLE toggle switch plunger is slid toward the USB icon.

Total Power Output
The USB-C® port draws its power from the unregulated battery connection which, as mentioned above, is limited to 2 A at the battery voltage. This means there is only around 28.8 W total power shared between both power outputs (assuming the battery is at 14.4 V). If power is drawn through the USB-C® connector, then less power is available through the unregulated battery port and vice versa.

Example

As an example, if a full 5 V @ 3 A are drawn from the USB-C® port, the battery is currently measuring 14.4 V, and the switching regulator is 90% efficient, then a maximum of 0.84 A3 can be drawn from the unregulated battery port before the resettable fuse will trip (and depending on ambient temperature, even more margin may be necessary).

USB/BLE Toggle
The USB/BLE toggle routes the robot's single USB Host connection either to the USB-C® port (useful for connecting to single-board computers with OTG or device ports) or to the on-board Bluetooth® Low Energy4 module. This module can be used to interact with the iRobot Education Python Web Playground or any other application supporting the iRobot Education Bluetooth® protocol.

Indicators
Orange Indicator
The orange indicator (D3) is illuminated when the USB-C® port is powering a downstream device, whether or not a data connection is being made.

Yellow Indicator
The yellow indicator (D2) is illuminated when the robot's internal 5 V bus is enabled. There is a hardware error if this LED is extinguished while the green indicator is illuminated.

Green Indicator
The green indicator (D300) is illuminated when the robot's battery is switched on.

Blue Indicator
The blue indicator (D6) is illuminated when the BLE radio is turned on. It flashes when it is connected to a host.